referece/tools: add document for deploying dm with binary (#1597)
pingcap/docs: dev/how-to/deploy/data-migration-with-binary.md

+ Two DM-worker nodes and one DM-master node are deployed on three servers.

Here is the address of each node:

| Instance or node        | Server address   |
| :---------- | :----------- |
| MySQL1     | 192.168.0.1 |
| MySQL2     | 192.168.0.2 |
| TiDB       | 192.168.0.3 |
| DM-master  | 192.168.0.4 |
| DM-worker1 | 192.168.0.5 |
| DM-worker2 | 192.168.0.6 |

Enable the binlog on MySQL1 and on MySQL2. DM-worker1 replicates the data from MySQL1 and DM-worker2 replicates the data from MySQL2.

Based on this scenario, the following sections of this document describe how to deploy the DM cluster.

### Deploy DM-worker

Establish the connection between DM-worker and the upstream MySQL instances, and for safety reasons, you must configure the encrypted password.

Encrypt the MySQL password by executing the following command. Suppose the password is "123456".

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```bash
./bin/dmctl --encrypt "123456"
```

Then, you get the encrypted password as shown below. Record this encrypted value, which is used for deploying DM-worker in the following steps.

```
fCxfQ9XKCezSzuCD0Wf5dUD+LsKegSg=
```

> You can deploy DM-worker by using command-line parameters or by using the configuration file.

Reviewer: support two ways to set config, but  can't delpoy DM-worker only by command-line, some config can only set in config file

  -print-sample-config
        Prints the example configuration of DM-master
```

**Deployment method 2: configuration file**

Below is the configuration file of DM-master:

```toml
# Master Configuration.

# RPC configurations
rpc-rate-limit = 10.0
rpc-rate-burst = 40

# Log configurations
log-level = "info"
log-file = "dm-master.log"

# The listening address of DM-master
master-addr = ":8261"

# replication group <-> DM-worker configuration
[[deploy]]
# Corresponding to the source-id in the DM-worker1 configuration file
source-id = "mysql-replica-01"
# The service address of DM-worker1
dm-worker = "192.168.0.5:8262"

[[deploy]]
# Corresponding to the source-id in the DM-worker2 configuration file
source-id = "mysql-replica-02"
# The service address of DM-worker1
dm-worker = "192.168.0.6:8262"
```

It is recommended that you use method 2 (the configuration file) and write the above configuration to `conf/dm-master.toml`.

Then, run the following command in the terminal to operate DM-master:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```bash
bin/dm-master -config conf/dm-master.toml
```

Now, a DM cluster is successfully deployed.

### Create a data replication task

> Suppose that MySQL1 and MySQL2 have several sharded tales on each instance. These tables have the same structure and the same prefix "t" in their table names. The databases that they are in are named with the same prefix "sharding". In each of these tables, there is no conflict between the primary key and the unique key.

Reviewer: ```In each of these tables, there is no conflict between the primary key and the unique key.
```
don't understand this

Author: 每张表的主键和唯一键没有冲突。

Reviewer: 这些分表原来都是独立的表，现在需要同步到 tidb 的一个表中，所以应该是这些分表之间没有同样的主键值/唯一键的值

---
title: Deploy Data Migration Cluster Using DM Binary
summary: Learn how to deploy the Data Migration cluster using DM binary.
category: how-to
---

# Deploy Data Migration Cluster Using DM Binary

> <!-- markdownlint-disable MD029 -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Why disabled this rule for this doc?

This document introduces how to quickly deploy the Data Migration (DM) cluster using DM binary.

## Preparations

Download the official binary from [here](/dev/reference/tools/download.md#dm-data-migration).

The downloaded files have two subdirectories, `bin` and `conf`. The `bin` directory contains the binary files of DM-master, DM-worker, dmctl and Mydumper. The `conf` directory contains the sample configuration files.

## Sample scenario

Suppose that you are going to deploy a DM cluster based on this sample scenario:

+ Two MySQL instances are deployed on two servers.
+ One TiDB instance is deployed on one server (in the mocktikv mode).
+ Two DM-worker nodes and one DM-master node are deployed on three servers.

Here is the address of each node:

| Instance or node        | Server address   |
| :---------- | :----------- |
| MySQL1     | 192.168.0.1 |
| MySQL2     | 192.168.0.2 |
| TiDB       | 192.168.0.3 |
| DM-master  | 192.168.0.4 |
| DM-worker1 | 192.168.0.5 |
| DM-worker2 | 192.168.0.6 |

Enable the binlog on MySQL1 and on MySQL2. DM-worker1 replicates the data from MySQL1 and DM-worker2 replicates the data from MySQL2.

> Based on this scenario, the following sections of this document describe how to deploy the DM cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Based on this scenario, the following sections describe how to deploy the DM cluster.
```

### Deploy DM-worker

Establish the connection between DM-worker and the upstream MySQL instances, and for safety reasons, you must configure the encrypted password.

Encrypt the MySQL password by executing the following command. Suppose the password is "123456".

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```bash
./bin/dmctl --encrypt "123456"
```

Then, you get the encrypted password as shown below. Record this encrypted value, which is used for deploying DM-worker in the following steps.

```
fCxfQ9XKCezSzuCD0Wf5dUD+LsKegSg=
```

You can configure DM-worker by using command-line parameters or the configuration file.

**Deployment method 1: DM-worker command-line parameters**

Below is the description of the DM-worker command-line parameters:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```bash
./bin/dm-worker --help
```

```
Usage of worker:
  -L string
        Log level. Available values: "debug", "info" (default value), "warn", "error" or "fatal"
  -V    The output version number
  -checker-backoff-max duration

>         The longest waiting time for the automatic recovery after errors are checked in the task check module. The default value is "5m0s" which generally needs no change. It is recommended that you do not change this default value unless you have an in-depth understanding of this parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        The longest waiting time for the automatic recovery after errors are found in the task check module. The default value is "5m0s" which generally needs no change. It is not recommended to change this default value unless you have an in-depth understanding of this parameter.
```

  -checker-backoff-rollback duration

>         The time interval for adjusting the waiting time of the automatic recovery in the task check module. The default value is "5m0s" which generally needs no change. It is recommended that you do not change this default value unless you have an in-depth understanding of this parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        The time interval for adjusting the waiting time of the automatic recovery in the task check module. The default value is "5m0s" which generally needs no change. It is not recommended to change this default value unless you have an in-depth understanding of this parameter.
```

  -checker-check-enable

>         Enables or disables the task status check. When it is enabled, DM tries to resume the data replication tasks interrupted by errors. Default value: "true".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Enables or disables the task status check. When it is enabled, DM automatically tries to resume the data replication tasks interrupted by errors. Default value: "true".
```

  -config string
        The path of the configuration file
  -log-file string
        The path of log files
  -print-sample-config
        Prints the sample configuration
  -purge-expires int

>         The expiration time of relay logs. DM-worker tries to delete the relay logs whose last modified time is out of this value. Unit: hour.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        The expiration time of relay logs. DM-worker tries to delete the relay logs whose last modified time exceeds this value. Unit: hour.
```

  -purge-interval int
        The time interval at which relay logs are regularly checked for expiration. Default value: "3600". Unit: second.
  -purge-remain-space int
        Sets the minimum available disk space. When the disk space is smaller than this value, DM-worker tries to delete relay logs. Default value: "15". Unit: GB.
  -relay-dir string
        The path in which relay logs are stored. Default value: "./relay_log".
  -worker-addr string
        DM-worker address
```

> **Note:**
>
> In some situations, you cannot use the above method to configure DM-worker because some configurations are not exposed to the command line. Then use the configuration file instead.

**Deployment method 2: configuration file**

Below is the DM-worker configuration file. It is recommended that you use this method and write the following configuration to `conf/dm-worker1.toml`.

```toml
# Worker Configuration.

> # log configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Log configurations
```

log-level = "info"
log-file = "dm-worker.log"

# DM-worker address
worker-addr = ":8262"

# The server ID of MySQL slave, used when pulling binlog from MySQL
# In a replication group, each instance (master and slave) must have a unique server ID
server-id = 101

# Used to mark a replication group or MySQL/MariaDB instance
source-id = "mysql-replica-01"

# The type of upstream instance
# Available values: "mysql", "mariadb"
flavor = "mysql"

# The path in which relay logs are stored
relay-dir = "./relay_log"

# The path in which the metadata of DM-worker is stored
meta-dir = "dm_worker_meta"

> # Enables or disables gtid in the relay log unit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Enables or disables gtid in the relay log processing unit
```

enable-gtid = false

# The charset configuration in the DSN for connecting MySQL or Mariadb
# charset= ""

# MySQL connection address
[from]
host = "192.168.0.1"
user = "root"
password = "fCxfQ9XKCezSzuCD0Wf5dUD+LsKegSg="
port = 3306

# The rules for deleting relay logs
# [purge]
# interval = 3600
# expires = 24
# remain-space = 15

# Configurations of task status check
# [checker]
# check-enable = true
# backoff-rollback = 5m
# backoff-max = 5m
```

> Then, run the following command in the terminal to operate DM-worker:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, execute the following command in the terminal to run DM-worker:
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```bash
bin/dm-worker -config conf/dm-worker1.toml
```

> In DM-worker2, change `source-id` in the configuration file to `mysql-replica-02` and change the `from` configuration part to the address of MySQL2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In DM-worker2, change `source-id` in the configuration file to `mysql-replica-02` and change the `from` configuration to the address of MySQL2.
```

### Deploy DM-master

> You can configure DM-worker by using command-line parameters or the configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure DM-master by using command-line parameters or the configuration file.
```

**Deployment method 1: DM-master command-line parameters**

Below is the description of DM-master command-line parameters:

```bash
./bin/dm-master --help
```

```
Usage of dm-master:
  -L string
        Log level. Available values: "debug", "info" (default value), "warn", "error" or "fatal"

>   -V    The output version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  -V    Outputs the version information
```

  -config string
        The path of the configuration file
  -log-file string
        The path of log files
  -master-addr string
        DM-master address
  -print-sample-config

>         Prints the example configuration of DM-master

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Prints the sample configuration of DM-master
```
To unify the wording

```

> **Note:**
>
> In some situations, you cannot use the above method to configure DM-master because some configurations are not exposed to the command line. Then use the configuration file instead.

**Deployment method 2: configuration file**

Below is the configuration file of DM-master. It is recommended that you use this method and write the following configuration to `conf/dm-master.toml`.

```toml
# Master Configuration.

# RPC configurations
rpc-rate-limit = 10.0
rpc-rate-burst = 40

# Log configurations
log-level = "info"
log-file = "dm-master.log"

# The listening address of DM-master
master-addr = ":8261"

> # replication group <-> DM-worker configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Replication group <-> DM-worker configuration
```
This `<->` symbol means "refers to DM-worker configuration section"?

Author: I have confirmed with @WangXiangUSTC  that it is a typo.

[[deploy]]
# Corresponding to the source-id in the DM-worker1 configuration file
source-id = "mysql-replica-01"
# The service address of DM-worker1
dm-worker = "192.168.0.5:8262"

[[deploy]]
# Corresponding to the source-id in the DM-worker2 configuration file
source-id = "mysql-replica-02"
# The service address of DM-worker1
dm-worker = "192.168.0.6:8262"
```

> Then, run the following command in the terminal to operate DM-master:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, execute the following command in the terminal to run DM-master:
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```bash
bin/dm-master -config conf/dm-master.toml
```

Now, a DM cluster is successfully deployed.

### Create a data replication task

> Suppose that MySQL1 and MySQL2 have several sharded tales on each instance. These tables have the same structure and the same prefix "t" in their table names. The databases that they are in are named with the same prefix "sharding". In each sharded table, the primary key and unique key are different from those of all other tables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Suppose that there are several sharded tales on both MySQL1 and MySQL2 instances. These tables have the same structure and the same prefix "t" in their names. The databases where they are located are named with the same prefix "sharding". In each sharded table, the primary key and unique key are different from those of all other tables.
```

    target-database:
    host: "192.168.0.3"
    port: 4000
    user: "root"
    password: "" # if the password is not empty, you also need to configure the encrypted password using dmctl

    mysql-instances:
    - source-id: "mysql-replica-01"
        black-white-list:  "instance"
        route-rules: ["sharding-route-rules-table", "sharding-route-rules-schema"]
        mydumper-config-name: "global"
        loader-config-name: "global"
        syncer-config-name: "global"

    - source-id: "mysql-replica-02"
        black-white-list:  "instance"
        route-rules: ["sharding-route-rules-table", "sharding-route-rules-schema"]
        mydumper-config-name: "global"
        loader-config-name: "global"
        syncer-config-name: "global"

    black-white-list:
    instance:
        do-dbs: ["~^sharding[\\d]+"]
        do-tables:
        -  db-name: "~^sharding[\\d]+"
        tbl-name: "~^t[\\d]+"

    routes:
    sharding-route-rules-table:
        schema-pattern: sharding*
        table-pattern: t*
        target-schema: db_target
        target-table: t_target

    sharding-route-rules-schema:
        schema-pattern: sharding*
        target-schema: db_target

> 

Reviewer 2: The relative indentation in this YAML file is wrong. Please check the original indentation and fix it.
